Jason P. Voegele

OBJECTIVE
---------

Full-time software development or technical leadership position utilizing my
experience in application development, Internet development, and distributed
objects.

Availability
Currently employed. Next possible date of availability: July 2002.


SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS
-------------------------

* Programming in Java, C++, C, Eiffel, Ruby, Python, and Perl

* Strong knowledge of Object-Oriented software engineering methodologies,
  Object-Oriented Analysis and Design, Design By Contract, UML, Use-Case-driven
  development, the Unified Software Development Process, the full Software
  Development Life Cycle, and eXtreme Programming

* Strong Web development skills with HTML4, CSS, XML, XSLT, Java Servlets,
  Java Server Pages, CGI, PHP, and database-driven Web sites

* Experience with Web and Application Servers including Apache, IIS, Tomcat,
  JRun, WebSphere Application Server, Oracle Application Server, and Inprise
  Application Server

* Client/server development and distributed computing with CORBA, Java RMI, Java
  Message Service (JMS), SOAP, Web Services, and some DCOM

* Application development with Oracle 8i, Sybase, SQL-Server, PostgreSQL, and
  MySQL databases

* Basic Windows development with Visual C++, MFC, and COM

* Experience with Windows 9x/NT/2000, Linux, and HP-UX development environments


EXPERIENCE
----------

Consultant, Atos Origin, Inc.
October 2000 - present

* Serve as Java consultant and developer for numerous projects and clients

* Design and implement solutions for in-house projects using Java and
  Object-Oriented techniques

* Instruct courses on Java programming

Software Engineer, Carolla Development, Inc.
March 1998 - October 2000

* Project lead and primary developer for large-scale distributed application

* Designed and instructed training courses on Java, C++, and Object-Oriented
  Analysis and Design

* Designed and developed software systems following a formal Object-Oriented
  software engineering process

* Collected and analyzed requirements. Designed solutions to requirements using
  formal specification methods. Developed and tested solutions.

* Documented all stages of the process including analysis, design, and
  development according to UML and OOA/D techniques

* Object-Oriented development with C++ and Java

Technical Support Representative, NetExpress, Inc.
February 1998 - October 2000

* Assisted customers with technical questions regarding Internet services over
  the telephone and through email

* Performed troubleshooting for modem pools and Internet and mail servers

* Created and administered accounts within an Access database application


EDUCATION
---------

The Ohio State University, 1992 - present

Bachelor of Science, Computer and Information Science


PROJECTS AND TRAINING
---------------------

Oracle/Java Training Program - Coordinator
for Atos Origin, Inc.
ROLE: Training Program Coordinator, Teaching Assistant, Java/OO Consultant
DESCRIPTION:
Served as coordinator and teaching assistant for a comprehensive training
program conducted by Procter & Gamble covering Java and Oracle application
development. Topics covered by the courses were Java programming, Advanced Java,
SQL, PL/SQL, Advanced SQL, Oracle Developer Report Builder, Systems Analysis and
Design with Oracle Designer, SQL Performance Tuning, Java Procedural Features in
Oracle 8i, and Oracle JDeveloper. Specific duties included:
    * Assisting students with completion of course exercises
    * Presenting organization-specific materials for topics not covered
      in training courses
    * Providing additional post-training mentoring to students
    * Installation and configuration of development tools
    * Writing and grading tests for evaluation of student progress
    * Creation of comprehensive post-class exercises
    * Evaluation of training program curriculum, including recommendations
      for curriculum changes
    * Created and instructed one day overview course of Java Server Pages
      (JSP) technology


Oracle/Java Training Program - Project Manager
for Atos Origin, Inc.
ROLE: Project Manager, Java/OO Consultant
DESCRIPTION:
Served as project manager and technical consultant for five projects completed
by students of an Oracle/Java training program conducted by Procter & Gamble.
Projects involved JSP and Servletfront-ends to Oracle databases. Specific duties
included:
    * Interviewing customers and team leads for requirements gathering
    * Creation of functional specifications based on customer requirements for
      each of five projects, including a proposed system architecture for use by
      the students completing the project
    * Assignment of students to project teams
    * Providing mentoring to students regarding the use of java and Oracle
      during design and development tasks
    * Writing Java, JSP, and PL/SQL code for the implementation of some complex
      routines
    * Installation and configuration of development tools


Java Training Course
for Atos Origin, Inc.
ROLE: Instructor
DESCRIPTION:
Instructed five-day training course on Object-Oriented programming in Java.
Developed sample project to be implemented by students of the course.


Data Warehouse Monitoring System
for Atos Origin, Inc.
ROLE: Architect/Developer
TECHNOLOGIES: HTML, Java Servlets, Java Server Pages (JSP), XML, Java, Oracle,
              Together/J, Tomcat, JavaScript, Visual SourceSafe
DESCRIPTION:
The system involved monitoring various aspects of a data warehouse system and
reporting on their status. Specific duties included:
    * Creation of system architecture in the form of a UML Analysis Model, based
      on customer requirements
    * Creation of UML Design Model and associated design documentation
    * Low-level design, programming, and testing of the system
    * Installation and configuration of the system and supporting environment at
      client site
    * Cration and administration of Visual SourceSafe source repository
    * Use of TogetherSoft Together Control Center and Rational J to create
      UML/technical documentation
Developed for Broadwing, Inc.


Online Order Processing System
for Renaissance Worldwide, Inc.
ROLE: Designer/Developer
TECHNOLOGIES: Java, CORBA, Oracle 8i, JDBC, IBM AIX Toolkit for Java, JBuilder,
              Inprise Application Server, Java Swing
DESCRIPTION:
Developed order monitoring system for processing online orders, order
cancellations, and system errors as they were posted to an Oracle database.
Specific duties included:
    * Design and development of three monitoring systems for processing online
      orders, order cancellations, and system errors as they were posted to an
      Oracle database
    * Programming client-side services in Java for interacting with CORBA
      objects, AS/400 data queues via IBM's AS/400 Java toolkit, and Oracle
      databases with JDBC
    * Programming server-side CORBA objects with Inprise's Visibroker ORB using
      the POA model
    * Development of client-side user interface using Java Swing
    * Identification and repair of performance bottlenecks between communicating
      processes
    * Documentation of the systems being developed
Developed for The Longaberger Company


Process Management/Workflow Application
for Carolla Development
ROLE: Project Lead and Developer
TECHNOLOGIES: Java Servlets, CORBA, XML, JDBC
DESCRIPTION:
Architect and developer for a large-scale, distributed Project
Management/Workflow application.  The application was a Web-based project
management tool, which automated many of the tasks associated with the formal
development process that it was designed to support.  Technologies involved
included a suite of Java Servlets in the presentation tier using a CORBA
interface to integrate with the business logic tier, XML documents and Document
Type Definitions (DTDs) to serve as templates for documents created using the
application, and the Poet Object-Oriented Database for persistent storage.
Specific duties included:
    * Interfacing with customer advocates for determining project scope and
      gathering requirements
    * Completing requirements specification, including full Use Case
      descriptions and diagrams
    * Completing the system architecture in the form of a UML Analysis Model
      (Class and Collaboration diagrams)
    * Completing the system design specification including the UML Design Model
      (Class, Sequence, and Deployment diagrams)
    * Low-level design and programming of the system using Java, CORBA,
      Servlets, XML (DOM and SAX APIs, and DTDs), HTML CSS, and Poet
    * Providing mentoring for additional developers in the use of CORBA and Java
    * Evaluation of various CORBA ORBs and database products for use in the
      application

C++ Training Course
for Carolla Development
ROLE: Instructor and Assistant Designer
DESCRIPTION:
Instructed and assisted in the design of a five-day training course on
Object-Oriented C++ programming. Developed sample project to be implemented by
students of the course.


Java Training Course
for Carolla Development
ROLE: Designer
DESCRIPTION:
Designed five-day training course on Object-Oriented programming in Java.
Developed sample project to be implemented by students of the course.


Object-Oriented Design Training Course
for Carolla Development
ROLE: Assistant Instructor
DESCRIPTION:
Assisted in instruction of five-day training course on Object-Oriented Design,
including design of sample application using UML. Converted all course materials
from using Booch notation to using UML notation.


Commuter Assistance Application
for The Ohio State University
ROLE: Technical Lead and Developer
TECHNOLOGIES: HTML, CGI/Perl, SQL, Sybase RDBMS on HP-UX
DESCRIPTION:
Technical Lead and Developer for an online Web based application to assist
campus commuters. The system stored user preferences in a Sybase database, and
allowed users to view personalizedinformation regarding construction, street
closings, and other activities that could affect their normal commuting route.
Implemented as a term project for Software Engineering course.



REFERENCES
----------

Available upon request.

